If you suspect your neural network
is over fitting your data.
That is you have a high variance problem,
one of the first things you should
try per probably regularization.
The other way to address high variance,
is to get more training data
that's also quite reliable.
But you can't always get
more training data, or
it could be expensive to get more data.
But adding regularization will often
help to prevent overfitting, or
to reduce the errors in your network.
So let's see how regularization works.
Let's develop these ideas
using logistic regression.
Recall that for logistic regression,
you try to minimize the cost function J,
which is defined as this cost function.
Some of your training examples of the
losses of the individual predictions in
the different examples,
where you recall that w and
b in the logistic regression,
are the parameters.
So w is an x-dimensional parameter vector,
and b is a real number.
And so to add regularization to the
logistic regression, what you do is add to
it this thing, lambda, which is
called the regularization parameter.
I'll say more about that in a second.
But lambda/2m times the norm of w squared.
So here,
the norm of w squared is just equal to
sum from j equals 1 to nx of wj squared,
or this can also be written w
transpose w, it's just a square
Euclidean norm of the prime to vector w.
And this is called L2 regularization.
Because here,
you're using the Euclidean normals, or
else the L2 norm with
the prime to vector w.
Now, why do you regularize
just the parameter w?
Why don't we add something
here about b as well?
In practice, you could do this,
but I usually just omit this.
Because if you look at your parameters,
w is usually a pretty high dimensional
parameter vector,
especially with a high variance problem.
Maybe w just has a lot of parameters, so
you aren't fitting all the parameters
well, whereas b is just a single number.
So almost all the parameters
are in w rather b.
And if you add this last term,
in practice,
it won't make much of a difference,
because b is just one parameter over
a very large number of parameters.
In practice,
I usually just don't bother to include it.
But you can if you want.
So L2 regularization is the most
common type of regularization.
You might have also heard of some
people talk about L1 regularization.
And that's when you add,
instead of this L2 norm,
you instead add a term that is
lambda/m of sum over of this.
And this is also called the L1
norm of the parameter vector w,
so the little subscript 1 down there,
right?
And I guess whether you put m or 2m in the
denominator, is just a scaling constant.
If you use L1 regularization,
then w will end up being sparse.
And what that means is that the w
vector will have a lot of zeros in it.
And some people say that this can help
with compressing the model, because
the set of parameters are zero, and
you need less memory to store the model.
Although, I find that, in practice, L1
regularization to make your model sparse,
helps only a little bit.
So I don't think it's used that much,
at least not for
the purpose of compressing your model.
And when people train your networks,
L2 regularization is just
used much much more often.
Sorry, just fixing up some
of the notation here.
So one last detail.
Lambda here is called the regularization,
Parameter.
And usually, you set this
using your development set, or
using [INAUDIBLE] cross validation.
When you a variety of values and
see what does the best,
in terms of trading off between doing
well in your training set versus also
setting that two normal of
your parameters to be small.
Which helps prevent over fitting.
So lambda is another hyper parameter
that you might have to tune.
And by the way, for
the programming exercises,
lambda is a reserved keyword in
the Python programming language.
So in the programming exercise,
we'll have lambd,
without the a, so as not to clash
with the reserved keyword in Python.
So we use lambd to represent
the lambda regularization parameter.
So this is how you implement L2
regularization for logistic regression.
How about a neural network?
In a neural network, you have a cost
function that's a function of
all of your parameters, w[1],
b[1] through w[L], b[L],
where capital L is the number of
layers in your neural network.
And so the cost function is this,
sum of the losses,
summed over your m training examples.
And says at regularization,
you add lambda over
2m of sum over all of your parameters W,
your parameter matrix is w,
of their, that's called the squared norm.
Where this norm of a matrix,
meaning the squared
norm is defined as the sum
of the i sum of j,
of each of the elements of that matrix,
squared.
And if you want the indices
of this summation.
This is sum from i=1 through n[l-1].
Sum from j=1 through n[l],
because w is an n[l-1] by
n[l] dimensional matrix,
where these are the number of
units in layers [l-1] in layer l.
So this matrix norm,
it turns out is called the Frobenius
norm of the matrix,
denoted with a F in the subscript.
So for
arcane linear algebra technical reasons,
this is not called the l2
normal of a matrix.
Instead, it's called
the Frobenius norm of a matrix.
I know it sounds like it would be more
natural to just call the l2 norm of
the matrix, but for really arcane
reasons that you don't need to know,
by convention,
this is called the Frobenius norm.
It just means the sum of square
of elements of a matrix.
So how do you implement
gradient descent with this?
Previously, we would
complete dw using backprop,
where backprop would give
us the partial derivative
of J with respect to w, or
really w for any given [l].
And then you update w[l],
as w[l]- the learning rate times d.
So this is before we added this extra
regularization term to the objective.
Now that we've added this
regularization term to the objective,
what you do is you take dw and
you add to it, lambda/m times w.
And then you just compute this update,
same as before.
And it turns out that with
this new definition of dw[l],
this new dw[l] is still a correct
definition of the derivative
of your cost function,
with respect to your parameters,
now that you've added the extra
regularization term at the end.
And it's for this reason that L2
regularization is sometimes also
called weight decay.
So if I take this definition of dw[l] and
just plug it in here,
then you see that the update
is w[l] = w[l] times
the learning rate alpha times
the thing from backprop,
+lambda of m times w[l].
Throw the minus sign there.
And so this is equal to w[l]- alpha
lambda / m times w[l]- alpha times
the thing you got from backpop.
And so this term shows that
whatever the matrix w[l] is,
you're going to make it
a little bit smaller, right?
This is actually as if you're
taking the matrix w and
you're multiplying it by 1-alpha lambda/m.
You're really taking the matrix w and
subtracting alpha lambda/m times this.
Like you're multiplying
matrix w by this number,
which is going to be
a little bit less than 1.
So this is why L2 norm regularization
is also called weight decay.
Because it's just like the ordinally
gradient descent, where you update
w by subtracting alpha times the original
gradient you got from backprop.
But now you're also
multiplying w by this thing,
which is a little bit less than 1.
So the alternative name for
L2 regularization is weight decay.
I'm not really going to use that name,
but the intuition for
it's called weight decay is that this
first term here, is equal to this.
So you're just multiplying the weight
metrics by a number slightly less than 1.
So that's how you implement L2
regularization in neural network.
Now, one question that [INAUDIBLE]
has asked me is, hey, Andrew,
why does regularization
prevent over-fitting?
Let's look at the next video,
and gain some intuition for
how regularization prevents over-fitting.